As such, that consultant, that consultant better know a great deal about the ins and outs, the political sides of this.
Because you just can't, you know, the state, keep in mind, and again, I haven't shared, we're a land-grant school.
And if you look at the mandate of the land-grant school,
I mean our job is to take the the the middle class and the lower middle class and even the lower class and ratchet these people up so any good Texan
said if that's your mention take my kid see and so you've got that piece there and and you've still got you've still got over there uh those people my age and older those 70 and 80 years old who came here as uh with no shoes so to speak and an old dean potts or somebody you know should have kicked their butt out when he says son we're going to give you one more chance
And they're peppered all around this state.
And you have that, I don't want to say it's a reputation, you've got that mindset and you've got that tradition of taking that poor kid and making something out of him.
Except our problem is you've got so damn many kids.
And what we haven't done a good job of, I guess, as you look at the system, is trying to, you know, make the San Marcoses and make the Tarleton States and the other schools acceptable alternatives.
Yesterday, he was in San Antonio.
And this lady's just dying to get her daughter here.
But her daughter has a 1390 SAT.
You know, gotten the upper 700s off of her math.
Well, she's not going to have a problem.
She wants to get in the honors program, but she's just dying to get over here.
How do you think the quality of the business program now truly compares with the national?
Oh, I think we're up there.
I think our quality of our undergraduate program is as good as... Where do you think we, in a ranking, we rank?
Oh, we're probably, you know, I think we're probably easily... Our undergraduate program quality rise among the public schools.
Yeah.
Among the public schools.
We're in the top 25.
I really do.
I really think we're...
Our problem, and the others have the same problem, is that we give too many multiple choice exams because we've got too many kids.
You know, I still try to give exams, multiple choice exams, when I got teaching two sections of 120.
It's a lot of work on my part, but I just think I get a better feel of what those kids can do.
Who are the people, the individuals who deserve the most credit for the quality of the program here?
Well, it's... Now and or in the past.
Well, if you look, you know, from... There's several audiences.
Let's look among the... If we're trying to get the best faculty, it begins with faculty.
Oh, no, I'm talking about who deserves in the past, who has earned the... Who deserves to pat on the back either historically or currently for... Taking his hand?
Yeah.
Oh, I would think Benton.
Benton, I think, you know, started with Muse.
Muse, Mobley, and Benton have taken us there.
Hellrigo's done one heck of a job.
Who are the faculty members in the college who deserve the biggest pats on the back now and or in the past?
Well, I can only speak from, well, I can only speak, but again, you know, I think Lynn Berry, and I've mentioned his name.
Pete Rose and Don Frazier have always done a great job for us here.
And accounting, I don't,
I don't know who does that, but Jim Benjamin does a very good job politically of keeping A&M in front of the Arthur Andersons and the consulting firms.
We have this PPA program and we have kids knocking themselves out.
That's a five-year program where they come out with a master's in accounting and they have their
ready to sit for the CPA.
A lot of kids going into that program.
Who have been your closest friends, buddies, colleagues?
On the academic side?
Probably two or three that over the years would be Dan Robertson and
Paul Bush and Dan probably are the closest.
Over the years, of course, it was with Bill Pryde, but basically those two.
Where at noon or during the work day, at noon or coffee time, where would you and a group go to talk about something important or something you just wanted to share?
We just come in here.
You know, we aren't that collegial.
You know, there's groups that go for coffee.
We don't buddy around that much.
I see, I maybe go out and eat with Dan and Robertson.
Where do you eat for lunch?
At home.
Go home for lunch.
Because Patty and I can talk about the day.
And if I have other things to do, I'll bring my lunch.
You know, eat in there with the secretaries.
And I enjoy eating with the secretaries, you know.
Share with this machine two or three anecdotes that are unique to your experience and or Texas A&M.
Well, I think one of them that I've shared with you that I just love was when I was teaching a class.
I'm talking about student anecdotes.
And I was saying, you know, the first stage of this hierarchy of economic cooperation is just when two countries try to equally improve themselves by cooperating on some economic stuff.
For example, the St.
Lawrence Wheelay, the Seaway, was a cooperation between Canada and the United States.
A lot of dollars spent on both sides.
and uh a uh over in the alps there was uh the uh cooperation uh between the italians and the switz swiss to build this 17-mile tunnel that connected italy with switzerland so i asked on an exam about the hierarchy of economic development gives an example so this one student wrote
said well one student is at the very bottom where two countries just cooperate for example uh italy and sweden
cooperated to build this seventeen-mile tunnel across the Appalachians.
And I just let out a big roar about that.
Any others?
Well, years ago, this is kind of off color, but I remember
doing something and telling these guys, come on, guys, get with it.
You need to put more time and study.
And these were back in the Corps days.
He said, Dr. Gillespie, we've got the gas.
Well, what's the gas?
You don't know what the gas is?
No.
Well, what's the gas?
You just don't give a shot.
You know, and by changing the subject, you know, there are times that you're really proud of things.
I've shared a few of them, but already I've shared some things I'm proud of.
But another one was the Centennial Committee that you chaired.
I thought, and I'm always just proud as punch to see Rodney Hill's stuff up there, for $25,000 we got five panels, solid walnut, and I think that's what it was, $25,000, and we got a rendition at two-thirds size, and then all the politics that went on about
changing some department or some college didn't get as much space as the other and what Rodney had to go through and perhaps you had to to to mediate all this but that panel is a work of art masterpiece and I felt really proud to be on that committee.
Yeah, I've got another panel.
Well, it's growing also in its luster and its fame.
Oh, yeah, it's patina.
Yeah, fame is right.
And that was a great assignment that John Pearson and I really, really liked that one.
As you think back, were there any key decisions in the department or college that you now realize those were pivotal?
when you all decided to do this instead of that?
No, uh-uh.
No big change that I was—got involved in.
Well, yeah, you do a—you do a five-year—when Muse came in, we're going to do a five-year plan.
Okay, and that was— That's probably—that made us really—and we would review that semi-annually.
So he kept you focused.
It just wasn't paper.
Tell me about it.
Where are we going?
What should we change?
Why can't we do what we're doing?
Yeah.
All right, let me then, if we're going to need to worry about time, two more questions, then we'll quit.
If you had a million dollars that someone gave you and you could pass it on to Texas A&M, but you decide what use would be made of that gift, what would you want it used?
You know, I've thought about that.
I think everybody thought that because, you know, they think sometimes you might have some money.
I'm not sure that I would give it to students, you know, the scholarship.
That's the easiest place to go.
You can decide.
No, but you'd struggle with that.
You would struggle with that.
It would be programmatic.
I've even thought of just giving unrestricted funds to the department head of marketing and say, there's a million bucks, put in foundation, it'll scrape off $50,000 a year, hard cash.
you just report to the dean how you use it uh for the for the good of the department for the good of the department the other place that i would probably give it is for the fellows program our cba fellows program undergraduates it's underfunded and uh it's probably underfunded by that much fifty thousand dollar a million dollar endowment fifty thousand dollars a year
so that they could truly do the things they need to do to give those kids enough experience and enough experiences as juniors and seniors of what it's going to be like to manage a complex organization.
I mean we take 50 kids a year
and that's probably a little bit.
I think we'd probably be better off if we took 25, but we got so many good kids, it's hard to do.
Take 50 kids a year,
And so 100 are in the pot all the time and really work.
We work very, very hard to try to get the leadership potential that those people have in them.
They're high achievers, hard workers, and they know there's payoff for them if they can excel in this program.
I'd give that money there.
All right.
So the last question is, what feelings do you have for Texas A&M today?
Oh you know uh every time every every muster is a tearjerker for me uh every uh when I go over to Rudder Tire and sit down and and and see those films out at the Alpout Center I mean those are those are tough I I've I've been known and I faculty know that I've sat with
prospective faculty up there at the faculty uh uh club and at lunch and we have to go off to the side and they'll ask me and i start talking about a m and i get tears i i choke i literally choke i you know i have to can't just because i think there's uh so much to offer to the state of texas and to for our kids and you know that we have here in texas and what we what they can take away uh
As much as this is a land-grant school, I do wish we were more selective.
I do wish we would, rather than certify, because we got a lot of kids in here who just want to be certified, and this is what disappoints me.
I can go into class today, and I can tell you probably within three class periods who wants to be certified and who wants to work.
And I wish I could say, okay, you guys that want to be certified,
Here's the only thing you have to do.
All you gotta do is pass the exams.
Don't even have to come in class, just pass the exams.
Don't have to participate in this, don't have to do all this other stuff that we, and I press them pretty hard, and you're gonna get a D. Now get out.
Because they really don't, they detract from the quality of the class.
We have a lot of kids that want to succeed, and we have a lot of kids that just want to be certified, don't want to be educated.
They're here for the ring because the ring's going to give them the job.
Not very many, but enough that it's a disappointment.
But I love this school.
Let's quit with that line.